All right, so I'm gonna cover one
last bit just going through it,
it's good to know we're not
gonna do any exercises on it.
But this is a very important thing cuz
you'll get yourself stuck in situations
sometimes where you care about
having an atomic process.
So atomicity, basically means
if one operation of a series
of many operation fails,
let's roll them all back.
So I don't wanna be in an incomplete state
because if I let's say I wanna run 10
operations to update a table or a database
in any database for that matter.
I don't want if three of them fail in the
process but then seven of them succeed.
It becomes difficult to know
what state my data is in,
especially if one of the other pieces
relied on the other piece of data.
So in order to make sure
that doesn't happen,
I want the whole process to be atomic, if
one thing failed, let's just do it again.
Because I don't wanna just fail even
cuz I don't want it to process through.
And in fire store you have two tools at
your disposal for atomic transaction,
you have Batch Writes and transactions.
A Batch Write basically is a big
collection of operations that you want to
run, you can call batch.set Batch.update,
batch.delete,
and you pass in the operation
you want to run inside of there.
And then when you run batch.commit,
it will attempt to put all those
together in one transaction.
So the way it works is, is that I
can set a batch, so batch.set I call
it with a document and then I just
pass the date I want batch.update.
Saying you pass in a document,
the data that you need to update and
then same thing with delete
the document as well.
And then since it's asynchronous,
you will run a try catch and
you await the commit and if there's
a problem, you can catch it in here.
And if there's a problem,
that's great because I'd rather have it
all fail than be in some incomplete state.
So at anytime in your app where you're
really relying on multiple transactions
that happen all at once.
Or multiple operations that
happen all together and
if they were to happen together and
really make things difficult,
this is the tool you use so
Batched Writes.
And it's important to note that Batched
Writes have a limit of 500 documents
per batch.
So if you're doing something that
goes well beyond 500 you'll need to
split it up into multiple batches.
And while that is a fairly frustrating
limitation, what I found is is that most
of the time if you are updating more
than 500 or something, several thousand.
It's good to do it in small batches if
you're doing something like fan out which
we'll show with con
functions here in a bit.
Where I say hey, I wanna update all of
my user profile information that I have
spread out or denormalized.
I may only wanna do that 500 at a time,
and
it's okay if my data is in an inconsistent
state as long as I eventually get it into
the consistent state.
And you'll see that a lot in systems
where you update your profile and
you might see it on yours but then on
another screen, it's not available yet.
Because it somewhere in
the background is running all of that.
And then maybe a minute later, maybe an
hour later, depending on how their system
works, you'll be like
everything is consistent now.
So that's known as eventual consistency
and it's another hallmark of no SQL.
And so yeah, updating over a period
of time with this is fairly common.
So then there's also transactions, so
transactions are similar to Batched Writes
where something fails everything fails.
But Batched Writes are more so I don't
care about the current state of data,
I want to overwrite
the current state of data.
Transactions, they work off of something
called optimistic concurrency control.
So in a lot of databases when you want to
do a transaction, it's gonna have to lock
at the database to say no one else can
touch these parts of the database.
Because I'm doing something
important here and
it would really mess everything up
if someone tried to access this.
Well in Firestore that could be
detrimental because of on a client level,
cuz let's say you access
the lock from your web app and
then you're lost connection.
What happens?
Do we just hold lock until they regain?
You can basically be locking
parts of your database for
indeterminate periods of time,
so we do not lock.
What we say is is we're going to assume
that the transaction is going to work but
if it doesn't work,
if the data has changed,
then we're gonna retry it
again until it does work.
So it gets around locking, so no parts
get locked, and it just gets reran.
So in this case,
let's say that we're building a game and
new points were awarded to the user.
And we didn't wanna just
overwrite with the new points,
we wanted to say hey add these
new points to the current state.
Or you can start by running a transaction
and this gives us a transaction object.
Where we can say get data at this
location, and usually check to see if
the document exists because otherwise
you don't wanna run the transaction.
Then you mutate the data here,
so we're gonna add the score,
and then we're going to
run the transaction.
And so what's important is that
at this point, Firestore knows,
all right,
we got the data at this point in time.
Now let's say before I
run transaction.update,
that this data gets updated.
Well, I don't want it to overwrite with
whatever, so if my credit score was 10,
and I was gonna get 10 more points,
so my score will be 20.
But during the meantime,
let's say I got 10 more points, well,
I want my score to be 30, not 20 again.
This one would be 10 plus 10,
it would know that,
I wouldn't know about the new update.
So when this reaches
the server FireStore knows
you thought that happened
when the score was 10.
Now the score is 20 let's run it again and
so then it will do that again and
so that way it'll will continue to try to
update without messing with the old data.
So transactions are a really good
way if you're building games or
anything that really relies on turns and
state they all have to be run and
transaction All right,
so that was all the FireStore we made
it through, that's the biggest section,
they're all pretty
relaxed from here on out.
We're gonna get into authentication and
then we're gonna focus on security.
And then we'll probably speed run
through some stuff with Cloud Functions,
the Cloud Functions they're
pretty easy to get through.